JSON Entry Documentation
Each new entry in the database.json file must strictly follow this structural blueprint:
json
{
  "img": "Assets/Images/imagename.fileExtension",
  "desc": "description for owner of database",
  "Name": "name of item",
  "ID": "ID number ",
  "longDesc": "Description for the website",
  "Catagory": "Catagory EI where it is going",
  "Price" : "Price if necessary "
}
Use code with caution.
Field Breakdowns & Validation Rules
img (String)
Purpose: Defines the relative file path to the item image asset.
Format: Must start with Assets/Images/.
Rules: Case-sensitive. Match the file extension exactly (e.g., .png, .jpg, .webp). Avoid spaces in filenames.
desc (String)
Purpose: Internal shorthand note for the database administrator.
Format: Keep it brief and administrative.
Rules: Do not include marketing text here. Use it for stock notes, supplier info, or internal tracking details.
Name (String)
Purpose: The official title of the product or item.
Format: Title Case (capitalize the first letter of major words).
Rules: Keep it clean and concise. This name displays prominently on the user interface.
ID (String/Integer)
Purpose: A unique identifier for the database item.
Format: Standardized numeric or alphanumeric code.
Rules: Ensure no two entries share the same ID. Check for accidental trailing spaces inside the quotation marks.
longDesc (String)
Purpose: Comprehensive product description visible to website visitors.
Format: Full sentences with proper punctuation.
Rules: Include key features, dimensions, or materials. HTML tags (like <br> or <strong>) may be allowed depending on your frontend setup.
Catagory (String)
Purpose: Dictates the website section or page routing for the item.
Format: Exact matching keyword from your site's predefined navigation tree.
Rules: Note the specific spelling (Catagory with an 'a'). Entries with misspelled categories will fail to render on the site.
Price (String)
Purpose: Retail cost of the item.
Format: Include the currency symbol (e.g., "$19.99").
Rules: If an item is free or lacks a price, use "N/A" or "0.00". Do not leave the field empty.
Important JSON Syntax Reminders
Trailing Commas: Every entry block must end with a comma , unless it is the absolute last item in the database array.
Double Quotes: JSON strictly requires double quotes "" for all keys and string values. Single quotes '' will cause a syntax error.
